
# PasswordUtil
## Strong Password Generator   

--------------------------------------------------------------

- Version 1.0.17 - Released Dec 20, 2022

- Developed using C# 

- Author: **Cameron Landers**

    - __LinkedIN profile:__ https://www.linkedin.com/in/cameronlandersexperience/
 
    - __Web Site:__ https://conversiondynamics.com

    - __Email:__ support@conversiondynamics.com.

- __LICENSE:__  Free and Open Source. No restrictions. 

- Please credit the author by including the above information in your distributions or documentation.


--------------------------------------------------------------
  
## What is PasswordUtil?
PasswordUtil.cs is a C# class that you can add to your applications that provides the ability to generate strong passwords. 

## Where can I use PasswordUtil.cs?

You can use PasswordUtil.cs in any application that supports C# classes and the System.Collections.Generic library. I developed it initially as part of a classic ASP.NET MVC application.

## Files in the distribution 
- `PasswordUtil.cs` - The source code file containing the PasswordUtil class 
- `ReadMe.md` - This file
 
## How To Use PasswordUtil.cs
After adding the class to your application, simply call the GenerateStrongPassword method like so:

`string strPassword = util.PasswordUtil.GenerateStrongPassword();` 

Note that the class is encapsulted in a namespace called "`util`". This is the reason the method call is prefaced in that way. You can change this to match whatever namespace your application uses, in which case you can drop the "`util.`" verbiage from the method call.

## Strong Password Definition
The strong password returned from the above method call will be a 16-character string, which is comprised of randomly-selected upper-or-lower-case alpha characters, one or more randomly-chosen nummeric digits (0-9) and one or more special characters chosen randomly from these: "*", "#", "$", "%", "!", and "?".

The resulting password will meet the most typical strong password requirements out there. Here are the only rare caveats I've encountered: 
- I've seen a couple of web sites that require a password shorter than 16 characters. That's not as strong of a password, but whatever... Just snip off some of the characters if you need to support such cases.
- I've seen some cases where a web site will require one and only one special character. You'll have to modify the GenerateStrongPassword method in this class if you need to support such a limitation. Again, that's not as strong as the passwords generated by this class.
- I've seen some cases where a web site will not support certain of the special characters used in this class. I can't imagine why, since I chose this minimum set of special characters carefully using the most commonly-accepted strong password requirements I could find during my research into this. Once again, any requirement that does not support this minimal set of special characters is not as strong as the passwords I'm generating here.

Other than the rare caveats listed above, you should find that PasswordUtil provides a great solution for generating standard, commonly-accepted strong passwords for creating accounts and logging in just about anywhere on the web today.

Just to provide something visual, here are some sample passwords generated by PasswordUtil:

    r126zZ!#*5?qp7Ly
    nI%*6#?307x4Gym2
    o$#9487a?10q!kRp
    l#34MD6hu%qU*w87
    Z?02*F9$1%vPN5cG
    r?#fg90$T6b4x7oN
    D#7i%qk*cI!063rN
    z6V!*Z7%JYK$cbXI

Notice that the characters in the passwords above are not only clearly random, but the order in which numbers versus alpha characters versus special characters appear is quire random as well. This guarantees very strong passwords that are virually impossible to guess and completely impossible to predict, since there is no specific pattern to the algorithm that I'm using here.

As a final comment, you might notice that the first character of all these passwords is always an upper-or-lower-case alpha character (a-Z). This is necessary because there are many systems that will not allow strings to begin with a decimal character, and consequently there are some web sites out there that won't accept passwords that begin with a digit. So I set the first character as a guaranteed alpha character to avoid that pitfall. Everything else about these passwords is absolutely random.  

Enjoy!

Cheers,
-=Cameron

---
[eof]  

  
